These are the crtieria that help me determine whether I align with a staking service provider. It's unlikely that any provider will meet all of these criteria, so I support projects that align to varying degrees.

**Alignment** - Is the product aligned with the success of Ethereum, or is it a "business proposition"? This can be REALLY hard to figure out, but I pretty much listen to the first words out of a project lead's mouth: Are they talking about improving Ethereum or maximizing TVL & profit? The answer to these questions tell whether a project is a public good or a windfall opportunity for investors. I **DO** support investor rewards, but they ought to be within reason, and the ultimate benefactor should be the network and its users.

**Longevity** - I look for projects that have been around long enough to know what they're getting into. This is why I'm a terrible angel investor. Young projects don't have this acumen, and I'm not smart enough to determine whether they'll develop it in time. Longevity is one of the reasons I continue to support Stakewise - they've continued to grow and develop their product over many years.

**Permissionless Node Operation** - This is a HUGE requirement for me. Growth of the Ethereum network requires that as many as people as possible run validators and nodes, and I only support projects who allow any person who is willing to put up a bond, or split a Decentralized Validator Technology (DVT) validator to participate. I believe that successful staking platforms should encourage home node operation and provide multi-client support so that the operator can choose from any consensus or execution client pair.

**Operators must have a stake** - Operators need to have skin in the game, this means that if they're staking for an Liquid Staking Derivative (LSD) they ALSO need to have their own Ether on the line. This is because staking is actually a voting process on the network. If an operator doesn't have any stake, they're getting paid regardless of whether the network thrives or fails, but if they have Ether locked in that validator they're far more likely to make decisions that benefit the network. 

**Self-Limiting** - Any project I get excited about must support a self-limit to 22%. I don't care if they'll never get there, this is basically a commitment to say, "We're going to put the success of Ethereum above all else." 

**Minimal Complexity** - I'm deterred by extreme complexity, and adding complexity increases smart contract risk and lowers the odds that people will figure out how it works. Now, to be honest, some projects APPEAR to be complex because they're doing something new, but they may be doing this in the most simple way possible. I have to confess that if I hear inclusion of an NFT in a staking pool scheme I'm generally turned off due to complexity.

**Fully Trustless** - Staking funds need to be controlled end-to-end by a smart contract, not any form of multisig. This means that when you enter as a permissionless validator, your funds are received and managed by smart contract logic that delegates other people's Ether to you, and when you exit, those Ether need to be returned to a smart contract that distributes them fairly. This process ought to be as transparent as possible. This DOES add REAL smart contract risk, but it's superior to human controlled wallets.

**Open Source** - Staking platforms should release code for public audit and as a public good. Our core values include open source software and we must adhere to this as we grow.

**Single Chain** - I do not align with the concept that large staking services can develop business by operating on many chains. That's not a decentralizing service to anyone - it's a centralizing service for everyone. I support staking services that operate exclusively on Ethereum. While I admit to being a bit of an Ethereum maximalist to some extent, that's not the motive here, it's just that staking on multiple chains betrays a profit motive rather than a chain success motive. 

**Audited** - Strong staking platforms have several rounds of published audits by known auditors and they've disclosed vulnerabilities that they've corrected. They are likely to participate in bug bounty programs like Immunefi.

So, yeah. These are my values and the ways I evaluate a staking platform. It's why my list is so short, currently I support Rocket Pool, Diva, and Stakewise v3. You may be right to point out that my high standards have enabled shady operators to expand more quickly than quality operators can proliferate, but if we're going to build a healthy network the community and stakeholders must choose the best providers.
